Portfolio Project

After deliberating some time about what I wanted this portfolio to be, I decided that I want it to be a starter
project for a web designer (featuring my photography of different cities and areas) who is still learning the ropes, and 
wants to come up with a simple project highlighting the utility and functionality of the website he is creating.
 
A) It was difficult for me to choose the colors for this website before I have had a chance to play around with the 
website in order to determine what suits it best. But for the purposes of fulfilling this assignment, I have decided 
to make the background color a light gray, so as to not interfere with the foreground text and content of the site.
I want my font to be a dark blue, so as to be highly visible and clear to the potential visitor of the site. I would 
like to keep the same color of font for all three sections of my website, as I find that different colors would be 
distracting and possibly seem tacky.   

(Post completion of project notes): I changed the background color of my header, 
footer and main sections to gray, while keeping the body background color light gray. I did this because I needed two 
different colors between my body and my header, footer and main areas. 

D)
HOME PAGE

Welcome to my Portfolio Page

Check out my gallery detailing the iamgery of three wonderful settings. 

Enjoy the breeze and fog of San Francisco, stroll 
through the warm streets of Los Angeles, and take time to appreciate the beauty of nature in Yosemite. 
Click on PHOTO GALLERY PROJECT to continue your journey


PHOTO GALLERY PROJECT

Click on one of the locations: SAN FRANCISCO, LOS ANGELES, YOSEMITE to have a closer look at the sights that
gave me the definitive impressions of those locations I will never forget. 


SAN FRANCISCO

The images I chose to represent San Francisco have to do with capturing that feel of the "City by the Bay" I wanted to
include a lot of water and a lot of fog. The bay stretches across the city, capturing views from Pier 39 and heading 
all the way down to Ocean Beach to look at the cliffhouse and the mysterious caves beneath it.


LOS ANGELES

I wanted to capture the hot and hip vibe of Los Angeles by showing palm trees contrasted against a clear blue sky, and 
then offer a contrast of the same palm trees framing the city street signs and the architecture of its urban 
landscape. 


YOSEMITE

The majesty of Yosemite lies in its association with natural phenomenons of tall mountains, waterfalls and a multitude
of trees.



ABOUT ME

My name is Kristap Baltin, and I'm an aspiring web page designer looking to provide businesses with pages that are
functional, easy to use, and provide simple, pleasing layouts that intuitively guide the user through the site 
without distractions and capitalize on content to create conversions.

In a world of ambiguity and abstraction, it is nice to have a guide that knows what you need and where you want to go.
I use this website to take the visitor through a journey of three iconic cities and to display my philosophy of
simplicity, and a clear, lucid, simple and concise design. 

Current day website visitors attempt to have their needs met everyday through seeking services that are transparent
and take them to where they need to go. In many cases, their attempts are met with frustration as they visit sites
that bombard them with advertisements, clunky and confusing designs, and superfluous information and content that
inevitably chases them away into arms of competitors who understand utility and efficiency.

I hope my website can display my philosophy of simplicity and easy navigation through a representation of three different
areas capturing the spirit and soul of the cities the images portray.     



CONTACT ME

Kristap Baltin
San Francsico, CA

E-mail me at: Kbaltin@yahoo.com
Check out my profile at: www.linkedin.com/in/kristap-baltin

Check out another example of my design at: Kristapbaltin.com

Check out my resume: RESUME.PDF


E) Model Portfolio Websites

	i) belancio.com
Header: the BELANCIO line top left, and the heading "Hello, we are Belancio. We create engaging experiences. 
Nice to meet you."

Body: The six image cubes in the middle.

Footer: @2020 Belancio text, and the links to Instagram, Dribble and Behance.

I like that the page appears sleek and is minimalistic. There isn't an overflow of information in the header and footer.
The white background is non-distracting and forces the user to focus in on the comment. 

I don't like that the image squares in the body aren't all that visually appealing. The design seems sloppy, and that
these brands are squeezed up against each other is confusing and doesn't create a lot of brand separation. The user isn't
sure where one brand begins and where the other ends. The colors are not attractive and the separate brands could use
borders. I understand they're going for a communal look representing Belancio as a whole, but the result seems
cluttered and unnapealing.

ii) Hangar.co

Header: 4 fluctuating images representing 4 different brands.
Body: 4 blocks representing 4 brands and brief invitations to view the projects.
Footer: "Let's get started" section featuring Project Planner and Newsletter subscription.

One thing I like: This website is incredible and manages to do everything that Belancio did not. It separates
its work on the four brands by using 4 captivating fluctuating images, and by separating the brands in easily
recognizable individual spaces in the body. The site is impressive visually and easy to use and understand.

One thing I don't like: Nothing, I thought this was the ideal way to market your projects and brands.

iii) workdiary.de

Header: Michael Schmid - Designer & Developer

Body: Description of who he is.

Footer: Let's connect - e-mail, Dribbble, Twitter

One thing I like: The site looks awesome. It's simple, but also engaging and visually impressive. 

One thing I don't like: There is not a lot of variety on the site. We don't really know of all that Michael is
capable of just by visiting this site. There are no ecxamples of previous projects or different examples of works.
  





