The Pleasures of Reading Fiction

My name is Kristap Baltin, and the hobby I will talk about today is far too often neglected. Reading, while often 
used on smart phones for text messages and social media, is in contrast, being used far less for longer strecthes
of pleasure reading. As humanity's entertainment options continue to grow, a majority of people are addicted to their 
smart phones, streaming accounts, and social media. The latter, in particular, accounts for an increase in debilitating 
moods, shorter attention spans, narcissism and depression. The upsides of pleasure reading however, are obvious and 
well-documented.

Here is an article from Healthline.com https://www.healthline.com/health/benefits-of-reading-books#builds-vocabulary that
documents the many and various benefits of reading. Among them are increases in empathy, prevention of cognitive
decline, stress reduction, alleviation of depression and many more. Dana Gioia, former chairman of the National Endowement 
for the Arts, has completed many studies finding that young adults who read for leisure are more likely to later become 
civic-minded, empathetic, active, and charitable. Here is a link to him being interviewed on NPR, 
https://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=16435529.

I personally enjoy reading fiction for leisure because it brings me a lot of pleasure. I enjoy reading more than watching
TV or movies because reading forces me to use my imagination. While visual entertainment does all the work for you,
reading strains your faculties and forces you to use your brain to either decipher what can sometimes be complex passages
or utilize your imagination to create your own images and ideas of what concepts can be and how they look. Most importantly,
being aware that I only live one relatively short life, it is a dream come true to be able to live multiple lives through
the act of reading. I see reading as an extension of my mortality. Though there are a limited amount of things I can
accomplish on this earth while alive, I can multiply my experiences in an exponential fashion through living the lives
and experiences of the characters I encounter in my favorite literary works. I can be an addicted and arrogant, yet 
brilliant detective, solving cases in a dense and foggy 19th century London, or I can find myself travelling around the 
world in 80 days, using locomotives, large ships, and even high-flying air balloons. The options are really limitless,
and the challenge of finishing a complicated, yet enlightening text can be a tremendous reward both intelectually and 
spiritually.

Starting to read for fun can be intimidating. Many people start with classics as their entry, and it can often be the 
best choice, as it will usually be a critically acclaimed work with important themes and ideas. It is imperative, 
however, that you choose wisely when first starting out. Choosing the wrong book may turn you off from reading, 
and prevent you from eventually tackling those more difficult novels that are also the most rewarding. Short stories
are the perfect entry way into the world of literature. Their relatively small page count and containment of bigger
ideas on a smaller canvas allows you to have an entertaining, yet thoughtful experience in one sitting. I would 
reccomend the beginning reader to read a quick summary and make sure that the theme (what the story is about, or the
main or recurring idea of the story) of the story is something you may relate to or have an interest in. As a beginning
reader, that is a good method to keep yourself on pace and not to get discouraged of reading. As your skills increase,
you will notice that it's not as important for you to relate to the characters or even have to have anything in common
or in relation with in the story. The magic of reading will in that case be realized, as you will have gotten beyond 
yourself, and will have more of an interest in the created world of the author. It is at that point that your imagination
will be at its strongest, and will receive the highest pleasure from the act of reading as an act of reception and 
creation. Here is a list of some websites that are dedicated to providing you with high quality short stories meant to 
foster and kindle your love of reading and storytelling.

https://americanliterature.com/twenty-great-american-short-stories
(This website features some of the best and most tragic short stories ever written. They feature a 
"short story of the day" and that is a great place to start, if you don't quite know what you're looking for.

https://365tomorrows.com/
Want to read cool, exciting, science-fiction stories, and maybe even submit one of your own? Check out 365
tomorrows, with many options for great reads and even a chance to cintribute something of your own.

http://www.eastoftheweb.com
Want to check out some modern stories? East of the Web provides a great selection of classics as well as many
excellent contemporary selections. Either way you won't have a shortage of reading material!  

         
 